Clean up the HA docs (#9387)
kubernetes/kops: docs/operations/high_availability.md

# High Availability (HA)

## Introduction

> For testing purposes, kubernetes works just fine with a single master. However, when the master becomes unavailable, for example due to upgrade or instance failure, the kubernetes API will be unavailable. Pods and services that are running on the continues to operate as long as they do not depend on interacting with the API, but operations such as adding nodes, scaling pods, replacing terminated pods will not work. Running kubectl will also not work. 

Reviewer: Missing word (maybe "nodes"?): "running on the continues to operate"

> kops runs each master in a dedicated autoscaling groups (ASG) and stores data on ESB volumes. That way, if a master node is terminated the ASG will launch a new master instance with the master's volume. Because of the dedicated ESB volumes, each master is bound to a fixed Availability Zone (AZ). If the AZ becomes unavailable, the master instance in that AZ will also become unavailable.

Reviewer: Nit: s/groups/group  (or remove "a" from "a dedicated autoscaling group")

Nit: s/ESB/EBS

We should probably try to call them "control plane nodes" instead of "master" also.

Nits aside, love this paragraph - it explains a tricky subject well!

Author: Thanks for the nits.
I am all for changing "master" to "control plane nodes" (something a bit less verbose would be nice though) if that is what k/k is doing as well. But we should have a plan on changing this everywhere. It would probably be a good idea to do this as part of #9178

> For production use, you therefor want to run kubernetes in a HA setup with multiple masters. With multiple master nodes, you will be able both to do graceful, zero-down time upgrades, and you will be able to survive AZ failures.

Reviewer: Nit: therefor -> therefore

If you already have a single-master cluster you would like to convert to a multi-master cluster, read the [single to multi-master](../single-to-multi-master.md) docs.

## Creating a HA cluster

### Example 1: public topology

> The simplest way to get started with a HA cluster is to run `kops create cluster` as shown below. The `--master-zones` flag listing the zones you want your masters

Reviewer: s/listing/lists

When you first call `kops create cluster`, you specify the `--master-zones` flag listing the zones you want your masters
to run in, for example:
The simplest way to get started with a HA cluster is to run `kops create cluster` as shown below. The `--master-zones` flag listing the zones you want your masters
to run in. By default, kops will create one master per AZ. Since the kubernetes etcd cluster runs on the master nodes, you have to specify an odd number of zones in order to obtain quorum.

```
kops create cluster \
    --node-count 3 \
    --zones us-west-2a,us-west-2b,us-west-2c \
    --master-zones us-west-2a,us-west-2b,us-west-2c \
    --node-size t2.medium \
    --master-size t2.medium \
    --topology private \
    --networking kopeio-vxlan \
    hacluster.example.com
```

Kubernetes relies on a key-value store called "etcd", which uses the Quorum approach to consistency,
so it is available if 51% of the nodes are available.

As a result there are a few considerations that need to be taken into account when using kops with HA:

* Only odd number of masters instances should be created, as an even number is likely _less_ reliable than the lower odd number.

> * Kops has experimental support for running multiple masters in the same AZ, but it should be used carefully.

Reviewer: I feel like this is an important sentence to keep  - the idea that you can repeat the zone.  If you only have 2 AZs in a region, whether it's better to run in 2 AZs or all in one is debatable, I guess - we seem to have suggested at the end that running in one region is best.

(Agree with dropping the federation stuff though!)

Author: I thought there was no longer any region with 2 zones anymore, but turns out it is one: Beijing. I'll add a version of that back in.

Reviewer 2: 👍  Some regions have more than two AZs but only two of them are effectively usable due to instance type availability: us-west-1 for example.

>     --networking cilium \

Reviewer 3: I wouldn't mention Cilium here. If you want, maybe Calico or Weave which seem simpler to digest for beginners (less options).

Author: Weave is listed as experimental on our networking page, which is why I am changing weave for something else when I can. But I am happy with using calico.

Reviewer 3: Should be better as I think is the default in other places, like Docker Desktop and Enterprise.

Reviewer 3: Not sure how experimental Weave is. I don't use it, but kept it up to date and seems pretty stable in tests.

Author: Weave is experimental per https://kops.sigs.k8s.io/networking/ :) I think I actually had weave a stable initially, but someone said it probably wasn't and I decided to be conservative.

Reviewer 4: After getting a ten-hour 3AM call about Weave, I'm reluctant to call it stable. I'm given to understand it has at its core an algorithm with polynomial complexity.

Reviewer 3: OK 😄 
Do we all agree that Calico is stable and the easiest one to get started with?

Author: I don't :) 
After some sleep, I am wondering if our examples should just put "<provider>" placeholder instead of a specific one. Or we need to have an "official" opinion on what users should go with. Most of the docs tries to be neutral here.
If we do go for e.g calico as the recommended provider, we should probably also use that one as default instead of kubenet, since you typically don't want to use kubenet.
This is probably worth an issue on its own though.

Reviewer 3: Neutral is good enough for me :)

# High Availability (HA)

## Introduction

> For testing purposes, kubernetes works just fine with a single master. However, when the master becomes unavailable, for example due to upgrade or instance failure, the kubernetes API will be unavailable. Pods and services that are running in the cluster continues to operate as long as they do not depend on interacting with the API, but operations such as adding nodes, scaling pods, replacing terminated pods will not work. Running kubectl will also not work. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For testing purposes, kubernetes works just fine with a single master. However, when the master becomes unavailable, for example due to upgrade or instance failure, the kubernetes API will be unavailable. Pods and services that are running in the cluster continue to operate as long as they do not depend on interacting with the API, but operations such as adding nodes, scaling pods, replacing terminated pods will not work. Running kubectl will also not work. 
```

kops runs each master in a dedicated autoscaling groups (ASG) and stores data on EBS volumes. That way, if a master node is terminated the ASG will launch a new master instance with the master's volume. Because of the dedicated EBS volumes, each master is bound to a fixed Availability Zone (AZ). If the AZ becomes unavailable, the master instance in that AZ will also become unavailable.

> For production use, you therefore want to run kubernetes in a HA setup with multiple masters. With multiple master nodes, you will be able both to do graceful, zero-down time upgrades, and you will be able to survive AZ failures.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For production use, you therefore want to run kubernetes in a HA setup with multiple masters. With multiple master nodes, you will be able both to do graceful (zero-downtime) upgrades and you will be able to survive AZ failures.
```

> A few regions offers less than 3 AZs. In this case, running multiple masters in the same AZ is an option. If the AZ with multiple masters in becomes unavailable, you will still have downtime, but upgrades will be graceful and without downtime.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Very few regions offer less than 3 AZs. In this case, running multiple masters in the same AZ is an option. If the AZ with multiple masters becomes unavailable, you will still have downtime, but upgrades will be graceful and without downtime.
```

Reviewer 3: Also, this is a bit confusing `you will still have downtime, but upgrades will be graceful and without downtime`.

If you already have a single-master cluster you would like to convert to a multi-master cluster, read the [single to multi-master](../single-to-multi-master.md) docs.

> Note that running clusters spanning several AZs are more expensive than clusters spanning one or two AZs. Not only because of the master EC2 cost, but also because you have to pay for cross-AZ traffic. Depending on your workload you may therefore also want to consider running worker nodes only in two AZs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that running clusters spanning several AZs is more expensive than running clusters spanning one or two AZs. This happens not only because of the master EC2 cost, but also because you have to pay for cross-AZ traffic. Depending on your workload you may therefore also want to consider running worker nodes only in two AZs.
```
